"A" proposition
abandonment
abduction
Peter Abelard
the Absolute
absolutism
Absorption
abstraction
absurd
Abunaser
Academy
accent fallacy
accident
accident fallacy
act utilitarianism
action theory
actuality
Jane Addams
Addition
ad hominem argument
adiaphora
Alfred Adler
Theodor Adorno
aesthetics
affirmative conclusion
affirmative proposition
affirming the alternative
affirming the consequent
a fortiori
agent
agnosticism
Method of Agreement
aisthêsis
aition
akrásia
Albert the Great
alêtheia
Samuel Alexander
Algazel
algorithm
alienation
Alpharabius
alternation
alternative occurrence
Louis Althusser
altruism
ambiguity
amoral
amphiboly
analogy
analysis
analytic
analytic philosophy
anámnêsis
anankê
anarchism
Anaxagoras
Anaximander
Anaximenes
ancestral
andreia
Angst
anima
animals
animal rights
animism
anomalous monism
G.E.M. Anscombe
antecedent
Susan B. Anthony
anthropic principle
anthropomorphism
antinomy
Antisthenes
antithesis
anxiety
apeirôn
apodeictic
aporia
a posteriori
appearance
apperception
Kwame Anthony Appiah
applied ethics
a priori
archê
Archimedes
Hannah Arendt
Ares
aretê
argument
argument form
argumentum ad . . .
Aristippus
aristocracy
Aristotelian logic
Aristotelianism
arithmetic
D.M. Armstrong
Antoine Arnauld
Kenneth Arrow
artificial intelligence
asceticism
assent
assertion
assertoric
Association
association of ideas
assumption
Mary Astell
ataraxia
atheism
atomism
attribute
Aufklärung
John Austin
authenticity
appeal to authority
autonomy
Averroës
Avicebron
Avicenna
axiology
axiom
A. J. Ayer
Anselm
Aquinas
Aristotle
Augustine
Austin
Charles Babbage
Gaston Bachelard
Francis Bacon
Roger Bacon
arg. ad baculum
bad faith
Annette Baier
Kurt Baier
Mikhail Bakunin
"Barbara"
"Baroco"
Thomas Bayes
beauty
Bedeutung
begging the question
Begriff
behaviorism
belief
Jeremy Bentham
Nicolai Berdyaev
Henri Bergson
Isaiah Berlin
best of all possible worlds
Bewußtsein
biconditional
bivalence
Brand Blanshard
"Bocardo"
Boethius
Boetius of Dacia
Niels Bohr
Bernard Bolzano
Bonaventure
George Boole
Susan Bordo
Bernard Bosanquet
the Boundless
Robert Boyle
F. H. Bradley
Franz Brentano
C. D. Broad
Giordano Bruno
Martin Buber
bundle theory
Jean Buridan
Edmund Burke
Joseph Butler
Bayle
de Beauvoir
Bergmann
Berkeley
Edward Caird
Cambridge Platonists
"Camenes"
"Camestres"
Albert Camus
Georg Cantor
Rudolf Carnap
Carneades
Lewis Carroll
Cartesianism
Ernst Cassirer
casuistry
categorical imperative
categorical logic
categorical proposition
categorical syllogism
categorical term
category
category mistake
catharsis
cause
the four causes
Margaret Cavendish
"Celarent"
"Cesare"
chain of being
Pierre Charron
Roderick Chisholm
Noam Chomsky
Chrysippus
Alonzo Church
Cicero
circularity
Hélène Cixous
Samuel Clarke
class
clear and distinct
W. K. Clifford
Catherine Cockburn
cogito ergo sum
cognition
cognitive science
coherence theory
R.G. Collingwood
communism
Commutation
compatibilism
complement
completeness
complex question
composition fallacy
Auguste Comte
concept
conceptualism
conclusion
Concomitant Variation
Étienne de Condillac
conditional
confirmation
conjunction
Conjunction
connective
connotation
conscience
consciousness
consequent
consequentialism
consistency
constant
Constructive Dilemma
continence
contingent
contradiction
contradictories
contraposition
contraries
conventionalism
converse accident
conversion
converting conditional
Anne Conway
Nicolas Copernicus
Géraud de Cordemoy
corpuscularianism
correspondence theory
cosmological argument
counter-example
counterfactual
courage
Hasdai Crescas
criterion
critical theory
Benedetto Croce
Ralph Cudworth
Richard Cumberland
Nicolas of Cusa
cynicism
Jean d'Alembert
Mary Daly
"Darii"
Charles Darwin
Dasein
"Datisi"
Donald Davidson
Dorothy Day
decision procedure
deconstruction
Richard Dedekind
de dicto
deduction
de facto
definite description
definition
deism
de jure
Gilles Deleuze
Democritus
Augustus De Morgan
De Morgan's Theorem
Daniel Dennett
denotation
denying the antecedent
deontology
de re
Jacques Derrida
descriptive ethics
argument from design
determinable
determinism
Baron d'Holbach
dialectic
dialectical materialism
diánoia
Denis Diderot
Method of Difference
díkê
dilemma
Wilhelm Dilthey
"Dimaris"
Ding an sich
Diogenes
direct realism
directive use of language
"Disamis"
disjunction
Disjunctive Syllogism
disposition
distribution of terms
Distribution
division fallacy
double aspect theory
Double Negation
method of doubt
dóxa
mind-body dualism
W.E.B. Dubois
Pierre Duhem
Michael Dummett
dynamis
Émile Durkheim
duties
Ronald Dworkin
Descartes
Dewey
"E" proposition
Meister Eckhart
Umberto Eco
ecofeminism
effect
efficient cause
egoism
eidos
eikásia
Albert Einstein
Eleatics
eliminativism
Elizabeth of Bohemia
emanation
emergent property
Ralph Waldo Emerson
appeal to emotion
emotive meaning
emotivism
Empedocles
empirical
empiricism
Encyclopedists
end
energeia
Friedrich Engels
Enlightenment
entailment
Entäusserung
entelecheia
enthusiasm
enthymeme
epiphenomenalism
epistêmê
epistemology
epochê
equivalence
Equivalence
equivocal
equivocation
Desiderius Erasmus
Eratosthenes
Erfahrung
John Scotus Erigena
Erlebnis
eros
esse est percipi
essence
estrangement
eternal return
ethics
ethos
Euclid
eudaemonism
Leonhard Euler
evidence
problem of evil
excluded middle
exclusive premises
existence
existential fallacy
Existential Generalization
existential import
Existential Instantiation
existentialism
expected value
explanation
Exportation
expressive use of language
extension
extension
extensionality
extrinsic
Epictetus
Epicurus
fact
facticity
fallacy
fallibilism
false cause
falsifiability
al-Farabi
fatalism
Herbert Feigl
feminism
"Ferio"
"Ferison"
Pierre de Fermat
"Festino"
Ludwig Feuerbach
Paul Feyerabend
Richard Feynman
Fibonacci
Johann Fichte
Marsillio Ficino
fideism
figure
Robert Filmer
final cause
five ways
appeal to force
formal cause
formal fallacy
Platonic Forms
Michel Foucault
Simon Foucher
four terms fallacy
Joseph Fourier
Frankfurt school
freedom
Gottlob Frege
"Fresison"
Sigmund Freud
Margaret Fuller
functionalism
fuzzy logic
H.-G. Gadamer
Galileo Galilei
Mahatma Gandhi
Pierre Gassendi
C. F. Gauss
John Gay
Gemeinschaft
gender
general will
genus and differentia
Gersonides
Edmund Gettier
Arnold Geulincx
al-Ghazali
Carol Gilligan
Charlotte Perkins Gilman
Joseph Glanvill
Glück
gnôsis
existence of god
Kurt Gödel
William Godwin
Emma Goldman
good
Nelson Goodman
Antonio Gramsci
greatest happiness
T.H. Green
Paul Grice
Robert Grosseteste
Hugo Grotius
grue
Jürgen Habermas
haecceity
William Hamilton
Stuart Hampshire
happiness
Donna Haraway
Sandra Harding
R.M. Hare
H.L.A. Hart
David Hartley
Nicolai Hartmann
Friedrich Hayek
hedonism
Werner Heisenberg
Virginia Held
Helvetius
Carl Hempel
Heraclitus
Herbert of Cherbury
hermeneutics
heteronomy
heterological
heuristic
David Hilbert
Hippias
historicism
Sarah Lucia Hoagland
Douglas Hofstadter
homological
homonymous
bell hooks
Grace Hopper
Max Horkheimer
Karen Horney
hylê
humanism
Edmund Husserl
Francis Hutcheson
hylomorphic
Hypatia
hypostasization
hypothesis
hypothetical imperative
Hypothetical Syllogism
Hegel
Heidegger
Hobbes
Hume
"I" proposition
Ibn Daud
Ibn Gabirol
Ibn Rushd
Ibn Sina
idea
idealism
identity
identity theory
appeal to ignorance
arg. ad ignoratiam
ignoratio elenchi
illicit major
illicit minor
illocutionary act
imagination
immediate inference
impartiality
implication
Implication
incommensurability
incontinence
incorrigible
indexical
indirect proof
individual constant
individual variable
indubitable
induction
ineffable
inference
rules of inference
infinite regress
informal fallacy
informative use of language
Roman Ingarden
ingenium
innate ideas
instrumentalism
intension
intentionality
interactionism
intertextuality
intrinsic
intuition
intuitionism
invalid
Luce Irigaray
irony
irrelevant conclusion
"-ism"
Jansenism
Karl Jaspers
Thomas Jefferson
Joint Method
joint occurrence
judgment
C. G. Jung
just war theory
justice
justification
James
Hans Kelsen
Garth Kemerling
Johannes Kepler
John Maynard Keynes
Jaegwon Kim
al-Kindi
kinêsis
Martin Luther King, Jr.
knowledge
knowledge by acquaintance
theoretical knowledge
Saul Kripke
Julia Kristeva
Queen Kristina
Thomas Kuhn
Kant
Kierkegaard
Jacques Lacan
laissez-faire
Imre Lakatos
Jean-Baptiste Lamarck
Julien La Mettrie
Susanne Langer
P. S. de Laplace
Michèle Le Dœuff
legal positivism
Keith Lehrer
V. I. Lenin
G. E. Lessing
Leucippus
C. I. Lewis
lexical definition
lex talionis
liar paradox
libertas
N.I. Lobachevsky
locutionary act
logic
modal logic
logical form
logical positivism
logicization of arithmetic
logos
Peter Lombard
Konrad Lorenz
Rudolf Hermann Lotze
A.O. Lovejoy
Lucretius
Gyorgy Lukacs
Jan Lukasiewicz
Rosa Luxemburg
J.-F. Lyotard
Leibniz
Locke
Ernst Mach
J.M.E. McTaggart
magnanimity
Moses Maimonides
major premise
major term
Nicolas Malebranche
Thomas Malthus
Benoit Mandelbrot
Bernard Mandeville
Manichaeanism
Mao Zedong
Gabriel Marcel
Marcus Aurelius
Herbert Marcuse
Jacques Maritain
Marsilius of Padua
Damaris Masham
material cause
material equivalence
material implication
materialism
matter
mauvaise foi
maximin principle
George Herbert Mead
mean
meaning
mechanism
μεγαλοψυχι&alpha [megalopsychia]
Alexius Meinong
meme
memory
Gregor Mendel
Moses Mendelssohn
mens
mention
Maurice Merleau-Ponty
Marin Mersenne
mesos
meta-ethics
metanarrative
metaphilosophy
metaphysics
microcosm
middle term
Mary Midgley
Milesians
James Mill
Mill's Methods
mimêsis
mind
mind-body problem
minor premise
minor term
Marvin Minsky
arg. ad misericordiam
moderation
Modus Ponens
Modus Tollens
monad
monism
Michel de Montaigne
Baron de la Montesquieu
mood and figure
moral
moral argument
moral sense
Henry More
Thomas More
morphê
mythos
mysticism
Machiavelli
MacKinnon
Marx
Mill
Moore
Ernest Nagel
Thomas Nagel
natural law theory
naturalism
naturalistic fallacy
necessary
necessary
negating the ant. and con.
negation
negative proposition
neikos
neoplatonism
neo-Thomism
Otto Neurath
neutral monism
Isaac Newton
Pierre Nicole
Nihil in intellectu...
nihilism
Nel Noddings
nóêsis
nominalism
non sequitur
noncognitivism
normative ethics
John Norris
noumena
nous
Robert Nozick
Martha Nussbaum
Nietzsche
"O" proposition
objective
obligation
obscurum per obscurius
obversion
occasionalism
William of Ockham
oligarchy
ontological argument
ontology
open question
operationalism
opinion
optimism
José Ortega y Gasset
ostension
Rudolf Otto
ousia
pacifism
Thomas Paine
William Paley
panpsychism
pantheism
Paracelsus
paradigm
paradox
parallelism
Vilfredo Pareto
Parmenides
paronymous
law of parsimony
particular prop.
Blaise Pascal
patriarchy
Giuseppe Peano
perception
perceptual illusion
perfectibility
performative utterance
Peripatetics
perlocutionary act
Ralph Barton Perry
per se
person
personal identity
persuasive definition
pessimism
petitio principii
phenomenalism
phenomenology
phenomenon
philia
Philo Judaeus
philosophy
phrónêsis
physicalism
physis
Pico della Mirandola
pístis
appeal to pity
Max Planck
principle of plenitude
Plotinus
pluralism
pneuma
poiêsis
Jules Henri Poincare
Polish notation
politics
George Polya
Karl Popper
arg. ad populum
Porphyry
Port-Royal
positivism
post hoc fallacy
postmodernism
postulate
potentiality
pragmatic theory
pragmatism
praxis
precising definition
predicate calculus
predicate constant
prediction
premise
prescriptivism
presocratic philosophers
presupposition
H.H. Price
Richard Price
H.A. Prichard
prima facie
primary
Pringle-Pattison, Seth
private language
probability
problematic judgment
proof
proposition
propositional calculus
Protagoras
P.-J. Proudhon
prudence
psychê
Samuel Pufendorf
punishment
Hilary Putnam
Pyrrho of Elis
Pythagoras
Peirce
Plato
Q.E.D.
qualia
qualities
propositional quality
quantification rules
quantification theory
quantifiers
propositional quantity
quantum mechanics
quaternio terminorum
Quine
Frank Ramsey
Petrus Ramus
Ayn Rand
rationalism
John Rawls
realism
perceptual realism
reality
reason
recollection
recursive
reductio ad absurdum
reductionism
redundancy theory
reference
Tom Regan
Pierre Régis
Hans Reichenbach
Thomas Reid
reification
relativism
Renaissance
replacement rules
representationalism
res cogitans
Method of Residues
responsibility
Paul Ricouer
Bernhard Riemann
rights
rigid designator
David George Ritchie
Jacques Rohault
Richard Rorty
W.D. Ross
Josiah Royce
Sara Ruddick
rule utilitarianism
Rousseau
Russell
Ryle
Gaon Saadiah
Comte de Saint-Simon
salva veritate
moral sanction
George Santayana
Satyagraha
Ferdinand de Saussure
F.W.J. von Schelling
Friedrich Schiller
Friedrich Schleiermacher
Moritz Schlick
scholasticism
Arthur Schopenhauer
Erwin Schrödinger
scientia
scientific method
John Duns Scotus
John Searle
secondary qualities
secundum quid
self-deception
self-evident
Wilfrid Sellars
semantic theory
semantics
semiotics
Seneca
sensation
sense
sense data
Seth Pringle-Pattison
Sextus Empiricus
Shaftesbury
Sheffer stroke
Henry Sidgwick
Siger of Brabant
simpliciter
Simplification
sine qua non
Peter Singer
singular proposition
Sinn
skepticism
B.F. Skinner
J.J.C. Smart
Adam Smith
social contract
solipsism
sophía
sophism
sophists
sophrosúnê
sorites
soul
sound
Madeleine de Souvré
speech acts
Herbert Spencer
square of opposition
Madame de Staël
standard form
Elizabeth Cady Stanton
statement
statement constant
statement form
statement variable
C.L. Stevenson
Dugald Stewart
stipulative definition
stoicism
P.F. Strawson
structuralism
Francisco Suarez
subalternation
subcontraries
subjective
sublime
sub specie aeternitatis
substance
substitution-instance
sufficient condition
sui generis
summum bonum
supererogatory
supervenient
syllogism
symbolic logic
logical symbols
syncategorematic
synderesis
synonymous
syntactics
synthesis
synthetic
Sartre
Socrates
Spinoza
Alfred Tarski
tautology
Tautology
Harriet Taylor
technê
teleological argument
télos
Teresa of Avila
terminus a quo
Thales
theism
theodicy
theoretical definition
thesis
thing-in-itself
Thomas Aquinas
Judith Jarvis Thomson
H.D. Thoreau
Paul Tillich
time
timê
time travel
Timon of Philius
token
John Toland
transcendental argument
Transposition
Hegelian triad
Leon Trotsky
truth
truth-functional
truth-table
Sojourner Truth
tychê
tu quoque
Alan Turing
type
types, theory of
Übermensch
Miguel de Unamuno
unconscious
underdetermination
understanding
undistributed middle
uniformity of nature
Universal Generalization
Universal Instantiation
universal proposition
problem of universals
universalizability
univocal
Ursache
Urteil
use
utilitarianism
vagueness
Hans Vaihinger
valid
Lorenzo Valla
value
variable
Thorsten Veblen
John Venn
Venn diagrams
verbal dispute
arg. ad verecundiam
verifiability principle
veritas
Vernunft
Verstehen
Giambattista Vico
Vienna Circle
virtue
virtue ethics
volition
volonté générale
Voltaire
voluntarism
voluntary
John von Neumann
voting paradox
Wahrheit
Friedrich Waismann
J. B. Watson
weakness of will
Max Weber
Simone Weil
well-formed formula
Weltanschauung
Wert
Cornel West
Richard Whately
William Whewell
Alfred North Whitehead
Wiener Kreis
will
Edward O. Wilson
John Cook Wilson
Wirklichkeit
Wirkung
wisdom
John Wisdom
Wissen
Christian Wolff
Wittgenstein
Wollstonecraft
Xenocrates
Xenophanes
Xenophon
Zeit
Zeno of Citium
Zeno of Elea
Ernest Zermelo
zombie
